V5 release note - Automation part (#871)
akeneo/pim-helpcenter: content/updates/automation/2-Powerful-new-actions.md

# Powerful new automated rule actions

## Concatenate attribute values and free texts
::: meta-data type="New" ee-only="true" link-to-doc="../articles/get-started-with-the-rules-engine.html#concatenate"
:::

> Writing product labels and descriptions can be time-consuming, but this was before! With the new `concatenate` rule action, you can now combine your attributes, add some free-text fields and line breaks, and set the resulting value in another attribute. Pretty convenient when you want to automate the creation of engaging product descriptions and other product content. :wink:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Writing product titles and descriptions can take time, but that was before! With the new "concatenate" rule action, you can now combine your attributes, add free-text fields and line breaks, and set the resulting value in another attribute. Very handy when you want to automate the creation of attractive product descriptions and other product content.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Writing product titles and descriptions can take time, but that was before! With the new `concatenate` rule action, you can now combine your attributes, add free-text fields and line breaks, and set the resulting value in another attribute. Very handy when you want to automate the creation of attractive product descriptions and other product content.
```

This can also be used to ensure your product information is always formatted the same way. For instance, with the creation of a rule to concatenate your product attributes `Name` + `Color` + `Size` and set this new value chain into your `Product title` attribute.

Last but not least, to avoid any mistake, you can preview the created content when setting up your rule.

![Example of an automated product description creation](../img/automated-product-description-with-rules.png)

## Calculate attribute values
::: meta-data type="New" ee-only="true" link-to-doc="../articles/get-started-with-the-rules-engine.html#calculate"
:::

From complex to simple calculations, the `calculate` rule action enables you to do mathematical operations to fill in attributes based on other attribute values. Multiply your length, width and height attributes to get a volume, or create a more complex calculation to forecast your margin. No more time wasted calculating values!

> This new action comes with a `round_precision` parameter to allow you to round the final result of your rule operation(s). For example, set the number of decimal places you need or remove them all.

Reviewer 2: "decimal places" ? pour dire quoi exactement ? (je n'arrive pas à le traduire)

Reviewer: Google definition: _decimal places: the position of a digit to the right of a decimal point._

> This new action comes with a `round_precision` parameter to enable you to round the final result of your rule operation(s). For instance, define the number of decimals you need or remove all decimals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This new action comes with a `round_precision` parameter to allow you to round the final result of your rule operation(s). For example, set the number of decimal places you need or remove them all.
```

## Empty product values
::: meta-data type="New" ee-only="true" link-to-doc="../articles/get-started-with-the-rules-engine.html#clear"
:::

> Automatically remove values from your attributes whatever its content (date, price, simple-select...) or from any other field, based on specific conditions with our new `clear` rule action. This new action also allows you to remove categories from a product, or ungroup/disassociate products from others automatically. :rocket:

Reviewer 2: j'aurais peut être parlé de "clear" au lieu de "remove" (on a déjà une action qui s'appelle "remove")

Author: ```suggestion
Automatically clear values from your attributes whatever their content (date, price, simple-select...) or from any other field, based on specific conditions with our new `clear` rule action. This new action also allows you to remove categories from a product, or ungroup/disassociate products from others automatically. :rocket:
```

> Automatically remove values from any attribute: a date, a price, a simple-select.. or any other field based on specific conditions with our new `clear` rule action. This new action also allows you to remove categories from a product, or ungroup/disassociate products from others automatically. Neat! :rocket:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Automatically remove values from your attributes whatever its content (date, price, simple-select...) or from any other field, based on specific conditions with our new `clear` rule action. This new action also allows you to remove categories from a product, or ungroup/disassociate products from others automatically. :rocket:
```

## Copy an attribute value to another whatever their attribute types
::: meta-data type="Improvement" ee-only="true" link-to-doc="../articles/get-started-with-the-rules-engine.html#copy"
:::

> You can now copy the value from an attribute type to another attribute type. For instance, you can create a rule to copy an option from a simple select attribute to a reference entity single link, instead of manually copy/pasting it. By automating the copy of values, you make sure you have the right data in the right place, this will get rid of some manual and error-prone tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can now copy the value from an attribute type to another attribute type. For instance, you can create a rule to copy an option from a simple select attribute to a reference entity single link, instead of manually copy/pasting it. By automating the copy of values, you make sure you have the right data in the right place, this will get rid of some manual and error-prone tasks.
```

Last but not least, to avoid any mistake, you can preview the created content when setting up your rule.

## Calculate attribute values
::: meta-data type="New" ee-only="true"
:::

From complex to simple calculations, the `calculate` rule action enables you to do mathematical operations to fill in attributes based on other attribute values. Multiply your length, width and height attributes to get a volume, or create a more complex calculation to forecast your margin. No more time wasted calculating values!

![Automated volume calculation](../img/automated-volume-calculation.png)

This new action comes with a `round_precision` parameter to allow you to round the final result of your rule operation(s). For example, set the number of decimal places you need or remove them all.

## Clear product values
::: meta-data type="New" ee-only="true"
:::

Automatically clear values from your attributes whatever their content (date, price, simple-select...) or from any other field, based on specific conditions with our new `clear` rule action. This new action also allows you to remove categories from a product, or ungroup/disassociate products from others automatically.

> ## Copy an attribute value to another whatever their attribute types

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Copy an attribute value to another regardless of their attribute types
```
